.. _nl20231201:

News - 2023-12-01
=========================

ShARC Decommissioned
---------------------
- As of November 30th, we have officially decommissioned our oldest High-Performance Computing (HPC) cluster, ShARC. For reference, we have archived ShARC's documentation :ref:`here <decommissioned>`.  
- Support remains available for users needing assistance transitioning to Stanage and Bessemer. You can access support through 
	- The `courses <https://sites.google.com/sheffield.ac.uk/research-training/>`_ we offer 
	- Join our drop-in sessions by signing up through the Google Form included in our weekly email that advertises these sessions.
	- Or by reaching out via email to ``researchcomputing@sheffield.ac.uk``  with your query. 
- A huge thanks to the members of the team who contributed towards its creation in the early days and for the ones who saw it through to its decommissioning. We plan to ship it to the `Igor Sikorsky Kyiv Polytechnic Institute` in Kyiv, so that it can have a second life supporting researchers.

GPU Benchmarks
--------------------
- At the beginning of the academic year, we benchmarked the performance of NVIDIA H100 GPUs on Stanage and shared our discoveries, available `here <https://notesrcg.blogspot.com/2023/08/Stanage-HPC-new-h100-gpus-available-benchmarking.html>`_ . Our findings highlighted how different workloads benefit from different GPUs. This led us to more recently investigating NVIDIA L40 GPUs as a potential addition to our GPU offerings. Our colleagues, Farhad Allian and Peter Heywood, detailed their findings in the following `blog post <https://notesrcg.blogspot.com/2023/12/blog-post.html>`_ in November. 

Recent HPC documentation updates:
---------------------------------
- :ref:`Graphical user interface sessions on Stanage <flight-desktop>`
- The ShARC documentation section has been moved to the :ref:`Decommissioned Clusters <decommissioned>` section.
- Job completion emails contain limited job efficiency information, displaying job status with :ref:`seff  <seff>` gives more detail. Please make use of these to optimise your resource request.

New Packages and software
--------------------------

The following software are now available on Stanage:

- :ref:`CASTEP 23.1  <castep_stanage>` 
- :ref:`MATLAB 2023b  <matlab_stanage>` 
- :ref:`Molpro 2022.3.2  <molpro>` 
- :ref:`PETSc 3.20.1 && 3.17.4  <petsc_stanage>` 
- :ref:`Rosetta 2023.35  <rosetta_stanage>` 

Upcoming training
------------------
Below are key training dates for January.

- Linux training - 11/01/2024
- Introduction to using HPC 18/01/2024

You can register for the above and more courses by `following this link <https://sites.google.com/sheffield.ac.uk/research-training/>`_ .

Planned Maintenance
--------------------
- Stanage will be entirely unavailable for maintenance from 09:00 on 15th December until 17:00 on 19th December due to essential maintenance. 
- Abaqus license update on the 21st of December
- Ansys license update end of December. 
- The team will be away for the festive period from the 23/12/2023 to 2/1/2024 inclusive.


Useful Links
-------------

- :ref:`HPC documentation  <hpc-home>` 
- `RSE code clinic <https://rse.shef.ac.uk/support/code-clinic/>`_. These are fortnightly support sessions run by the RSE team and IT Services’ Research IT and support team. They are open to anyone at TUOS writing code for research to get help with programming problems and general advice on best practice.
- :ref:`Citing the HPC services in publications.  <citing>`