.. _nl20240201:

News - 2024-02-01
=================

Welcome back! We're delighted to have you back with us and hope everyone enjoyed a wonderful break. As we step into the new year, some of us may encounter new technical challenges or wish to explore new options to enhance your existing workflows, remember, our team is here to support you. Whether it's through code clinics, drop-in sessions, our ticketing system, seminars, or even personalized department visits upon request. Feel free to reach out to us via our email email ``researchcomputing@sheffield.ac.uk``.

For those wanting to learn new skills like using source control with git, we encourage you to explore our upcoming training sessions below. The training team will run courses in data science, machine learning, high-performance computing, and programming, all organized by IT Services.

We also have 2 part time vacancies on the horizon. The details for these are listed in the vacancies section and once the recruitment period is live, we will send an email to notify potential candidates.

GPU News
--------
- The Stanage H100 GPU drivers have been updated, addressing a numerical inaccuracy bug that was reported back in september.
- The GPU drivers in Bessemer were also updated.
- With the new drivers in place, we will soon start supporting CUDA 12.2. You will be notified once this is done in an email and should also feature in next months newsletter.


Recent HPC documentation updates:
---------------------------------
- We have taken the first steps into making the search function on the HPC documentation more accurate. Going into the documentation site , you will notice the new search engine and over time we are going to be working in further optimising the search function to make it more accurate.
- References to ShARC will be removed from the documentation and only the:ref:`Decommissioned Clusters <decommissioned>` section should have any reference to it.
- The parallel computing section will also be updated this month.

We work very hard on the documentation and any feedback or criticism helps us make them more clear and easy to read for example the search engine change was based on user feedback, so please feel free to get intouch.


New Packages and software
--------------------------
The following software are now available on Stanage:

- :ref:`Julia 1.9.0 <julia_stanage>` 
- :ref:`MATLAB 2023b is now available on the GPU nodes  <matlab_stanage>` 
- RStudio 2023 (Documentation pending) 

Upcoming training
------------------

Research computing key training dates for February. You can register for the courses below and more courses by `following this link <https://sites.google.com/sheffield.ac.uk/research-training/>`_ .
- Deap learning - 22/02/2024 to 23/02/2024 (2 day course)
- Python Programming 1 - 20/02/2024
- Python Programming 2 - 27/02/2024
- Statistics and Data Visualisation - TBC
- Linux training - TBC
- Introduction to using HPC - TBC
- Basics of Supervised Machine Learning - TBC

As you can see above, some of the dates are yet to be confirmed, stay tuned for the release of the upcoming timetable, scheduled in the next few weeks on `myDevelopment<https://www.sheffield.ac.uk/nap/service/redirect/mydev>`_.

The RSE team will run the following course(s) in February. You can register for it `here <https://rse.shef.ac.uk/training/workshop/workshop-2024-02-05-git-zero-hero>`_ .
- Git & GitHub through GitKraken! - 05/02/2024 to 06/02/2024 (2 day course)

Planned maintenance
-------------------
- Currently no planned down time for February.

vacancies
---------
- we are intending to hire 2 casual workers to come join our Research computing support team. We will be looking for 2 post graduates, with linux/HPC experience (all skill levels are welcome) to support our research computing community. 
- The successful candidates will be offered a three-month contract, working two hours per day, four days per week, preferably with at least one day per week in the Brunswick Street office with the Research Computing Support team.


Useful Links
-------------
- :ref:`HPC documentation  <hpc-home>` 
- `RSE code clinic <https://rse.shef.ac.uk/support/code-clinic/>`_. These are fortnightly support sessions run by the RSE team and IT Services’ Research IT and support team. They are open to anyone at TUOS writing code for research to get help with programming problems and general advice on best practice.
- :ref:`Citing the HPC services in publications.  <citing>`
- `Training and courses <https://sites.google.com/sheffield.ac.uk/research-training/>`_ .
