.. _nl20240301:

News - 2024-03-01
=================

Hello everyone, we have made it to spring, atleast for those who count seasons meteorologiacally, and for those who count seasons astronomically, stay strong just 20 more days of winter.

New Packages and Software
--------------------------

- Over the last 2 weeks you would have notice a warning when you loaded ``Anaconda 2022.10``. This is due to a bug that affected some users. We have re-installed ``Anaconda 2022.10`` and are doing our finals tests before the message is be removed.


Upcoming Events
----------------
- Our annual Research IT Forum will be held on the 04/03/2024. This will be an afternoon filled with talks, interesting case studies for and from our HPC community and snacks.
- The sheffieldR user group will be hosting their monthly meet up on the 21/03/2024. These are held once a month to suppport our R users here at sheffield university by offering interesting talks and code clinics for those struggling with R code or data. It also provide a forum for you to ask questions or share ideas with your peers who are using R. All are welcome so please join their `meet up group <https://www.meetup.com/sheffieldr-sheffield-r-users-group/>`_ or fill in the `google form <https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSffiI7o68QcFngrirJ7YrjGgJfduwtv0UWJDQeNQLLKUDQmzA/viewform>`_ , if you need any help with your code or data.


Upcoming Training
=================

Research computing key training dates for March. You can register for these courses and more at  `Research Computing Training <https://sites.google.com/sheffield.ac.uk/research-training/>`_ . 

.. warning::
    For our taught postgraduates users who dont have access to MyDevelopment please email us at ``researchcomputing@sheffield.ac.uk`` with the course you want to register and we should be able to help you.

.. note:: 
    
    **New course alert** : After a successful closed test run last month, we are now making our new course **Python Profiling and Optimisation** open to all. This course delves into the tools and methodologies used to analyse and 
    enhance the performance of Python programs. As much as we aim to make our courses accessible to all, this one requires a foundational understanding of python, so it is advisable to take our other python 
    courses first before attempting this one. We look forward to seeing you on ``07/03/2024`` and ``28/03/2024``.
 
- Python Programming 2 - 05/03/2024
- Python Programming 3 - 12/03/2024
- High perfomance computing - 05/03/2024
- Basics of Supervised Machine Learning - 08/03/2024
- Introduction to Matlab 1 - 14/03/2024
- Introduction to Matlab 2 - 21/03/2024
- Introduction to R - 26/03/2024
- Deap learning - 04/04/2024 to 05/04/2024 (2 day course)

Useful Links
-------------
- :ref:`HPC documentation  <hpc-home>` 
- `RSE code clinic <https://rse.shef.ac.uk/support/code-clinic/>`_. These are fortnightly support sessions run by the RSE team and IT Services’ Research IT and support team. They are open to anyone at TUOS writing code for research to get help with programming problems and general advice on best practice.
- :ref:`Citing the HPC services in publications.  <citing>`
- `Training and courses <https://sites.google.com/sheffield.ac.uk/research-training/>`_ .